baker: reword some blurry concepts and time contraints (#53)
Concordium/concordium.github.io: source/testnet/guides/become-baker.rst

Baker
-----

A node is a *baker* (or *is baking*) when it actively participates in the
network by creating new blocks that are added to the chain. A baker collects,
orders and validates the transactions that are included in a block to maintain
the integrity of the blockchain. The baker signs each block that they bake so
that the block can be checked and executed by the rest of the participants of
the network.

Baker keys
----------

Each baker has a set of cryptographic keys called *baker keys*. The node uses
these keys to sign the blocks that it bakes. In order to bake blocks signed by a
specific baker the node has to be running with its set of baker keys loaded.

Baker account
-------------

Each account in the network can register a unique set of baker keys that
effectively registers a baker in the network, so this means that every account

> can choose whether to be a baker or not.

Reviewer: What does "unique" mean? With respect to what? There is no requirement that signing and VRF keys are globally unique. Only the BLS keys must be. I'd remove `unique` from the sentence.

> can choose whether to be a baker or not.

Reviewer 2: Edited the suggestion.

> can choose whether to be a baker or not.

Author: Removed `unique` and applied suggestion.

-----------------

.. todo::
   
   - Link to release schedule.
     
The account can provide part of its owned amount of GTU to the baker (amount to

> which we will then refer as *staked amount*) and can later manually release all

Reviewer: I don't think convert is the right word. It implies some action that does not exist, I think.

I think we use  `stake` as a verb to describe the action.

> which we will then refer as *staked amount*) and can later manually release all

Reviewer 2: I was thinking of using another verb because stake is introduced for the first time here, and I thought using "convert" would make it more gradual :) The reason I chose "convert" is that it also emphasizes that you take part of your balance and move it into another state which somewhat suggests that it's not part of your normal balance any more. By contrast, the verb "stake" might only be clear once you know what it means.

> which we will then refer as *staked amount*) and can later manually release all

Author: Using `stake` as a verb.

> which we will then refer as *staked amount*) and can later manually release all

Reviewer 2: But we shouldn't say "stake GTU into baker stake". I'm OK with not using "convert" but I don't think we should use "stake" both as a verb and direct object in the same sentence. @abizjak could you provide a suggestion that you think would fit?

> which we will then refer as *staked amount*) and can later manually release all

Reviewer: If you feel strongly about this I'm fine if you use convert. I don't have time to rephrase at the moment.

of current bakers and stakes are fixed. Epochs have a time duration fixed at the
Genesis block. In the testnet, epochs have a duration of **1 hour**.

> When performing changes, once the transaction that performs the change is
> finalized, this change can be in two different states:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changes to the baker state can be in one of the following states:
```

Reviewer 2: But should this paragraph be in a different section? I realize that it's probably under `Epochs and slots` because times are often expressed in terms of epochs and slots. However, I think at this point it might look out of context. Maybe we could move this further down where it becomes relevant?

Reviewer 2: This is entirely optional, especially because we have little time left and a lot of work to do, but I wonder if it could simplify/clarify/remove the amount of writing if we included a little table that shows when the different baker events become visible by querying the node vs. when they actually take effect. Something on the lines of the [confluence table](https://concordium.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GEN/pages/435814401/Manual+Testing+FAQ#When-do-on-chain-events-happen?).

Author: This section has been removed and some tables have been added. Hopefully it is clearer now.

> finalized, this change can be in two different states:

Reviewer: You list more than two states. Also finalization is not relevant for the states.

Author: Section has been removed so this is no longer applicable.

> - When a change is said to be **pending** it means the change is processed
>   and will eventually be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A **pending** change has been processed and will eventually be executed.
```

Author: Section has been removed so this is no longer applicable.

> - When a change is said to be **executed** it means the change is performed and
>   will eventually take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An **executed** change has been performed and will eventually take effect.
```

Reviewer 2: But what is the difference between "executed", "performed", and "take effect" here? I think we need to clarify.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph is exactly trying to explain what the difference between the three states. I think this is clearer in the original wording than in the suggested change, although it is a bit difficult to understand.

I think it would be easier to understand it on a concrete example of baker removal.

Author: Section has been removed so this is no longer applicable. Added some tables to try to explain it better.

> - When a change is said to **take effect** it means that the change has been

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A change that has **taken effect** has been
```

Author: Section has been removed so this is no longer applicable.

>   performed and its result is the one currently being used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  performed and its result is currently being used.
```

Author: Section has been removed so this is no longer applicable.

For the different operations, we will specify how long the change will be

> pending for and when it will take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pending and when it will take effect.
```

Author: Section has been removed so this is no longer applicable.

   For this process the account needs to own some GTU so make sure to request the
   100 GTU drop for the account in the mobile app.

> Each account has a unique baker ID that is used when registering its baker. This
> ID has to be provided by the network and currently cannot be precomputed. This
> ID must be given inside the baker keys file to the node so that it can use the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each account has a unique baker ID that is used when registering its baker.
Baker IDs are provided by the network.
```
I'm thinking of leaving out the details about having to provide the ID to the node, I think it is too much to process and is a detail that will be addressed later.

Reviewer: The problem is that it is needed, and they will see it. Otherwise the whole step about baker-keys and baker-credentials is just some weird voodoo that you have to run IMO.

Author: I will leave this as is, for the reason @abizjak  mentioned.

baker keys to create blocks. The ``concordium-client`` will fill automatically

> this field when performing the following operations.

Reviewer: `will automatically fill`

Author: Suggestion applied.

rewards to the staked amount on the baker. This behavior is described on the
section `Restaking the earnings`_.

In order to start the node with these baker keys and start producing blocks you
first need to shut down the current running node (either by pressing
``Ctrl + C`` on the terminal where the node is running or using the
``concordium-node-stop`` executable).

After placing the file in the appropriate directory (already done in the
previous command when specifying the output file), start the node again using
``concordium-node``. The node will automatically start baking when the baker
gets included in the bakers for the current epoch.

This change will be executed
immediately and will take effect when finishing the epoch after the one in which
the transaction for adding the baker was included in a block.

> .. table:: Time constraints when adding a baker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. table:: Timeline: adding a baker
```

Reviewer 2: I'm suggesting to use "timeline" because I understand "constraints" to mean "restrictions". So if we say "constraints" it sounds to me as if the user might have to fit into these limitations that we impose, whereas I believe we want to outline the moments in time when certain events take place.

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------+

>    |                                    | Transaction is included in a block | 2 epochs have passed |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   |                                    | When transaction is included in a block | After 2 epochs |
```
I'm suggesting this to emphasize that these are moments in time

Reviewer 2: I would also consider writing simply "When transaction is added" or "...included" or "...finalized" for brevity (here and below).

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +====================================+====================================+======================+

>    | Baker is queued to be added        | ✓                                  |                      |

Reviewer 2: Here, it says "...queued to be added" whereas below in a similar context it says "Change is visible by querying the node". Should this be unified, i.e., should this also say "Change is visible by querying the node"?

Author: Changed to `Change is visible by querying the node`.

   +------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------+

>    | Baker is included in the committee |                                    | ✓                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   | Baker starts baking                |                                    | ✓                    |
```

Reviewer 2: Or, if this is not good, maybe we should say "baking committee"

Author: Suggestion applied. Using `baking committee`.

   +------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------+

.. note::

   If the transaction for adding the baker was included in a block during epoch `E`, the

>    baker will be considered as being part of the baking committee when epoch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   baker will be considered as part of the baking committee when epoch
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   `E+2` starts.

Managing the baker
==================

Checking the status of the baker and its lottery power
------------------------------------------------------

In order to see if the node is baking, you can check various sources that
offer different degrees of precision in the information displayed.

- In the `network dashboard <http://dashboard.testnet.concordium.com>`_, your
  node will show its baker ID in the ``Baker`` column.
- Using the ``concordium-client`` you can check the list of current bakers

>   and the relative staked amount that they hold, i.e. its lottery power.  The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and the relative staked amount that they hold, i.e. their lottery power.  The
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

``Ctrl + C`` on the terminal where the node is running or using the
``concordium-node-stop`` executable).

After placing the file in the appropriate directory (already done in the
previous command when specifying the output file), start the node again using
``concordium-node``. The node will automatically start baking when the baker
gets included in the bakers for the current epoch. This change will be executed
immediately and will take effect when finishing the epoch after the one in which
the transaction for adding the baker was finalized.

.. note::

   If the transaction for adding the baker was finalized during epoch `E`, the
   baker will be considered as being part of the baking committee when epoch

>    `E+2` starts.

Reviewer: You should remove all mentions of finalization as it pertains to epochs and stake changes. It is not relevant for the timing and is likely to confuse.

Author: References to finalization have been removed (except in the Finalization section).

   $concordium-client baker update-stake --stake <newAmount> --sender bakerAccount

Modifying the staked amount modifies the probability that a baker gets elected
to bake blocks.

When a baker **adds stake for the first time or increases their stake**, that
change is executed on the chain and becomes visible as soon as the transaction
is included in a block (can be seen through ``concordium-client account show
bakerAccount``) and takes effect 2 epochs after that.

> .. table:: Time constraints when increasing the stake

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. table:: Timeline: increasing baker stake
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +----------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------+

>    |                                        | Transaction is included in a block | After 2 epochs |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   |                                        | When transaction is included in a block | After 2 epochs |
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +========================================+====================================+================+
   | Change is visible by querying the node | ✓                                  |                |
   +----------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------+
   | Baker uses the new stake               |                                    | ✓              |
   +----------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------+

When a baker **decreases the staked amount**, the change will need *2 +
bakerCooldownEpochs* epochs to take effect. The change becomes visible on the
chain as soon as the transaction is included in a block, it can be consulted through
``concordium-client account show bakerAccount``:

.. code-block:: console

   $concordium-client account show bakerAccount
   ...

   Baker: #22
    - Staked amount: 50.000000 GTU to be updated to 20.000000 GTU at epoch 261  (2020-12-24 12:56:26 UTC)
    - Restake earnings: yes

   ...

> .. table:: Time constraints when decreasing the stake

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. table:: Timeline: decreasing baker stake
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +----------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+

>    |                                        | Transaction is included in a block | After *2 + bakerCooldownEpochs* epochs |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   |                                        | When transaction is included in a block | After *2 + bakerCooldownEpochs* epochs |
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +========================================+====================================+========================================+
   | Change is visible by querying the node | ✓                                  |                                        |
   +----------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+
   | Baker uses the new stake               |                                    | ✓                                      |
   +----------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+

>    | Stake can be decreased again or        | ✗                                  | ✓                                      |

Reviewer 2: What does the ✗ mean here? Should this be just empty?

Author: This means that it is forbidden to perform that operation at that time. This one is more of a restriction than when will something take effect, that's why it has an X.

Reviewer 2: I see, OK.

   $concordium-client baker update-restake False --sender bakerAccount
   $concordium-client baker update-restake True --sender bakerAccount

Changes to the restake flag will take effect immediately; however, the changes
start affecting baking and finalizing power in the epoch after next. The current
value of the switch can be seen in the account information which can be queried
using ``concordium-client``:

.. code-block:: console

   $concordium-client account show bakerAccount
   ...

   Baker: #22
    - Staked amount: 50.000000 GTU
    - Restake earnings: yes

   ...

> .. table:: Time constraints when updating the restaking switch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. table:: Timeline: updating restake
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +-----------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+-------------------------------+

>    |                                               | Transaction is included in a block | 2 epochs after being rewarded |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   |                                               | When transaction is included in a block | 2 epochs after being rewarded |
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +===============================================+====================================+===============================+
   | Change is visible by querying the node        | ✓                                  |                               |
   +-----------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
   | Earnings will [not] be restaked automatically | ✓                                  |                               |
   +-----------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
   | If restaking automatically, the gained        |                                    | ✓                             |

>    | stake counts for the lottery power            |                                    |                               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   | stake affects the lottery power            |                                    |                               |
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

This will remove the baker from the baker list and unlock the staked amount on
the baker so that it can be transferred or moved freely.

> When removing the baker, the change has the same time constraints as decreasing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When removing the baker, the change has the same timeline as decreasing
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   ...

> .. table:: Time constraints when removing a baker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. table:: Timeline: removing a baker
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

   +--------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+

>    |                                            | Transaction is included in a block | After *2 + bakerCooldownEpochs* epochs |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   |                                            | When transaction is included in a block | After *2 + bakerCooldownEpochs* epochs |
```

Author: Suggestion applied.
